>> Bianca Gandolfo: All right, so
the next thing we're gonna do
is implement a hash table.
So just to remember,
the interface of a hash table is that
you're going to insert and
remove in constant time.
The way the magic that makes this constant
is gonna be our hashing function.
And yeah, so when we insert,
we send a key value pair through,
when we remove, we just send the key.
Retrieving is just also a key, and
this is the same as an object, right?
If you're assigning a value to an object,
you need the key and the value, right?
So you can say that myobject.prop = 2,
something like that.
So the prop is the key,
2 is the value, so you need both.
And then when you're retrieving,
right, you say myob.prop, right?
So you just need the key in that case.
So that is the interface that
we're going to be copying.
So let's just get started
with creating an instance, so
my instance is called my hash table.
This is gonna be an object that
has some properties on it.
In this case, it's gonna be a storage
property that's assigned to an array.
The reason we're using
an array is because we
can't implement an object with an object,
so we're gonna use an array.
Otherwise, that would be cheating.
Okay, so let's think about this.
So let's just console.log my hash
table and see what it looks like.
All right, so just like we expected,
it has our storage on there.
Great, now,
let's insert something into myHT.insert.
So let's inert a, ('a', 1).
So a is our key, 1 is gonna be our value.
So then I will imagine that my
hash table would look something like this.
So at some index,
let's say 3.
We'll get to how this happens exactly,
We will save the key and the value here.
So this is how I would
imagine this would go down.
And maybe we have some other 0s here.
So we have an array
initialized with some 0s or
undefineds, it doesn't really matter.
But when I insert it,
I need to add this into my sorts array,
it needs to be constant time.
Our only option with constant time is that
we need a numerical index for our array.
That's the only way we can do that.
Otherwise, every other thing that
you're thinking of would require
looping through and finding the value.
And we can't do that because
hash tables constant time.
So we're storing that there.
If we have multiple items, so
let's say that we also insert b.
And we wanna give it a value 2.
And let's say for
some reason we have the same hash.
So this is how I'm gonna
handle the collisions,
is that I have an array
with two items in it.
So that's kind of what I'm
thinking in terms of how I'm gonna
work with this.
>> Speaker 2: Why did you just go smack
dab in the middle rather than the front?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
we'll get to like how it gets
its location in a second.
But that's a good question.
Great, okay.
So let's get started, and we'll talk
about how we get to the specific index.
Because that's the really
important aspect of a hash table,
is how do we get to that index.
Okay, so our insert,
we need to have our key and
our value.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So we are going to
initialize our index.
We need to get an index.
And what we're gonna do is we're
gonna use our hash function that I
implemented for us.
And that is gonna take a string and
a number.
So the string will be hashed
to a number between 0 and n.
Again, a core property of a hashing is for
whatever string you input,
it's always gonna give
you the same output.
And in this case,
the output is gonna be between a range.
And that range it's what we want the size
of our hash table to initially be.
So I like to start with 25.
And of course, this is something
that you might wanna think about,
how much data are we trying to work with?
Say we're gonna have a hash table, and
we only have two pieces of data ever.
And that's just something we know somehow.
You don't need to have 25.
>> Speaker 3: Well, but
is it gonna take up on your space,
the space holders so
to speak?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Not really.
>> Speaker 3: So then it's really more
unnecessary.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
we have our tableSize,
which is gonna be 25
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So we'll
just keep that in mind, and so great.
>> Speaker 2: Why did we
hard code that in?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: We just
are initializing it.
>> Speaker 3: So doesn't feel so
consistent.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
you could parse it.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: You
want in.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Probably better,
I like that better.
Okay, so
now we want to hash our key to an index.
So we have our key and
then we're also gonna pass this.tableSize.
We could initialize this with a bunch of
0s, but we don't really need to do that in
JavaScript, so I'm just gonna-
>> Speaker 3: Won't you have an underscore
before, like in front of tableSize?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cuz I forgot,
thanks.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay, so
this.storage [index] = value.
So basically we wanna do
something like this, right?
Where our key,
which is a hash to an index between 0 and
25, is going to be assigned to the value.
However, we need to
think about collisions,
which is what happens in the case of,
for example,
what if b runs through a hash function,
and also returns 0, 1, 2, 3.
And also returns 3.
We need to make sure that we're
not overriding and losing data.
So we need to create an array and,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Add these values.
So I would say something like if.
So if this already exist,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
if this already exists,
then that means we have an array already.
If this doesn't exist, then I
wanna say this._storage[index]
= an empty array.
So I'm initializing like a container
array inside of our storage array.
So right now,
it will look something like this.
Storage looks something like this.
Let's say our index is 3 and
there's 25 or something, maybe.
Actually, it just looks like this.
We'll go with this.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
that's what that does.
So we're just initializing and it's empty.
We haven't added anything yet.
So now we have this set index
is gonna return this array.
So what I wanna do is push.
I'm gonna push another array
with the key and the value.
And so
what this does is it will push something
like this.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
the reason is, and so
once we do this again.
So if that doesn't exist,
then we initialize it.
Otherwise, we push it, hm?
>> Speaker 3: Is it just me or
that's weird syntax, where's your
curly brackets after if statement?
>> Speaker 2: You don't need it if it's
on one line.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
I just one-lined it, but
you could do like this if you wanted.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, they do the same
thing though.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay, so
we're initializing that.
So now, the second time that we call it,
we have this already.
We hash the key of b, and let's say it
returns the same 0, 1, 2, returns 3.
So what we need to do is push the key and
the value as an array.
So here's the array, here's the key,
and here's the value.
Okay, so that's what we just did,
we're handling our
collision.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So collision
is when your hash function returns
the same index for a different key.
If you didn't handle a collision,
what we would do is instead
of all of this,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What we
would simply do is we would
just have the value there.
So the first time when we look up 2, and
we get 2 and we pass a,
the value will be 1,
so then here this will be 1.
The second time b hashes, and
then it would overwrite it to 2.
And so this is very dangerous.
You don't wanna lose any of
your data in a data structure.
So that is why we're doing it like this.
And we're also storing the key
because when we do a lookup later,
we wanna remember which one
is associated with which.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay, great, mh-mm?
>> Speaker 4: There's a comment from chat.
If this _storage index is 0, then that
would coerce the false.
>> Speaker 4: If
the value of-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: It should be an array
or not an array.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So if you do something
like you just say new Array[val).fill[0].
In this case,
were you initializing your storages and
arrays with a bunch of 0s,
then, that would be a problem.
No, actually no, it is still the same.
Cuz 0 would still be false.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay,
but I don't see the need to
initialize it with 0s or anything.
Okay, so where were we?
I think this is gonna work.
What do you think?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Guess we
can try it.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: All right,
let's see what we got.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Nice, so
we don't have a collision, but
we do have our nested arrays.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
you can see this one 16 empty items,
a couple empty items in between.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay.